---
layout: post
title: "Jekyllfied"
excerpt: "Things look different, again. Just 8 months ago I rebuilt SimpleCode, converting it from a dynamic Wordpress.com hosted/powered website to a static, baked Octopress powered website. Now, I’ve decided to rebuild SimpleCode using a combination of a (lightly) customised version of Twitter Bootstrap for the site’s layout and Jekyll as a CMS (although, Jekyll isn’t really a CMS). I think the new site is pretty sweet. Sure, it’s not quite as eye catching as the old Octopress site but it’s still got a nice clean look to it and it is pretty easy to read. Though the new website is in a shipping state, there’s a few more additions I want to make to it but they’re not critical to using the website, so I feel I can ship the new version now rather than waiting a few weeks until I make these new additions. The things missing from the site at the moment include site search (looking for a good way to implement that, that doesn’t rely on Google) and a responsive layout (I haven’t quite got my head around responsive CSS yet). These shouldn’t be too difficult to implement thanks to Bootstrap."
---

Things look different, again. Just 8 months ago I rebuilt SimpleCode, converting it from a dynamic Wordpress.com hosted/powered website to a static, baked Octopress powered website. Now, I’ve decided to rebuild SimpleCode using a combination of a (lightly) customised version of Twitter Bootstrap for the site’s layout and Jekyll as a CMS (although, Jekyll isn’t really a CMS). I think the new site is pretty sweet. Sure, it’s not quite as eye catching as the old Octopress site but it’s still got a nice clean look to it and it is pretty easy to read. Though the new website is in a shipping state, there’s a few more additions I want to make to it but they’re not critical to using the website, so I feel I can ship the new version now rather than waiting a few weeks until I make these new additions. The things missing from the site at the moment include site search (looking for a good way to implement that, that doesn’t rely on Google) and a responsive layout (I haven’t quite got my head around responsive CSS yet). These shouldn’t be too difficult to implement thanks to Bootstrap. 

Some reasoning on why I’ve decided to do this redesign. I started to have some troubles using the excellent Octopress blogging framework. Not with the framework itself (make no mistake, Octopress is fantastic) but rather, with the different versions of Ruby gems (and Ruby itself) that I had to keep installed to ensure Octopress continues to work. Rather than trying to fix the annoyances I was having with Ruby gems (the logical thing to do) I instead decided to just rebuild the entire website. I used it as an opportunity to try out Bootstrap. 

SimpleCode is now powered by Jekyll. It was powered by Jekyll before but much of the "Jekyllness" had been masked by Octopress (which itself, is based on Jekyll). 